# Python3 #847 solution - 213 ms (33.62%) - 27.49 MB (22.04%)

## Idea:

We need to find the shortest path **visiting all nodes**, so a "normal" shortest path algorithm _(bfs, dijkstra)_ will not work. A simple way to demonstrate this is to consider the following graph: `[[1,2,3],[0],[0],[0]]` (the first example). To visit all nodes we need to **visit multiple times** the node `0`, which bfs/dijkstra will not do because of the **"seen/visited" set**.

A way around this problem is to let an already visited node **be visited again** only if the **number of visited nodes** is different _(is greather)_. The idea behind this is that if we visit a node again with the **same number** of visited nodes, we are in a **cycle**. So "visited" is a **set of tuples** `(node, visited)`.

We need a simple way to represent **which nodes each node has visited**, we can use a normal set, but it will be _expensive to clone_ each time we need to put in the set of tuples, so we decide to use a **bitmask**, which being an integer will be copied each time. So the visited set is a set of tuples: `(node, visited bitmask)`.

We have all what we need to implement a simple **bfs** _(because the graph is unweighted)_ with a queue. The queue consists of tuples `(node, visited bitmask, steps)`. When an element is popped, we check if the combination `(node, visited bitmask)` is **already in the visited set**, if it is, we skip it. If it is not, we add it to the visited set and add all the **adjacents** of the node to the queue, with the **visited bitmask** and **steps** _(distance)_ updated.

One last problem: from which node do we **start**? We need to start from **all nodes** and take the **minimum** of the results. We could do that by running the algorithm for each node, but we can also start from **all nodes at the same time**, by adding all nodes to the queue at the beginning.

This will be an _huge_ improvement compared to running the algorithm for each node, because we will instantly find the **shortest path** across all nodes, instead of waiting for the shortest path for each node _(for instance, the shortest path for node 0 could be `22`, but the shortest path for node 1 could be just `5`, so we waited for the `22` unnecessarily)_.

## Solution:

- check edge case where the **graph has only one node**: return 0 as all nodes are already visited
- initialize `queue` (as a `deque`)
- initialize `seen`
- iterate over all nodes in the graph, to add them as **start points** to the queue:
  - add `(node, 1 << node, 0)` to the queue, where `1 << node` is the **visited bitmask** (only the start node is `1`) and `0` is the **distance**
- while the queue is not empty:
  - pop the first element from the queue
  - if the combination `(node, visited bitmask)` is in `seen`, skip it
  - add `(node, visited bitmask)` to `seen`
  - iterate over all **adjacents** of the node:
    - create a new **visited bitmask** (`newreached`) by adding the adjacent to the **visited bitmask** (`reached`)
    - add `(adjacent, new visited bitmask, distance+1)` to the queue
    - if we visited all nodes: **visited bitmask** is equal to `((1 << len(graph)) - 1)`
      - return `distance+1`
- if we did not find a solution, return `-1`

**Other solutions: [Favo02 on GitHub](https://github.com/Favo02/leetcode)**

## Code:
```python
def shortestPathLength(graph: List[List[int]]) -> int:
  if len(graph) == 1:
    return 0

  queue = deque()
  seen = set()

  for start in range(len(graph)):
    queue.append((start, 1 << start, 0))

  while queue:
    cur, reached, dist = queue.popleft()

    if (cur, reached) in seen:
      continue
    seen.add((cur, reached))

    for adj in graph[cur]:
      newreached = reached | (1 << adj)
      queue.append((adj, newreached, dist+1))
      if newreached == ((1 << len(graph)) - 1):
        print(dist + 1)
        return dist + 1

  print(-1)
  return -1
```
